tldr - There are three routes to become a software developer. You can be self taught, go to a coding bootcamp, and 
getting a college education. I give my take on the pros and cons of each route and why I want to go the college route
even though I already have a degree. Spoilers - I just like more education.

Growing up I never knew you can have a great career without having a degree. I never knew you can still 
validate yourself to have a career if you can show you have the necessary skills for it. 

One career in particular is a software developer. 

There were three ways that I found to become one. You can either be self-taught, go to a coding bootcamp, or
go to college. 

From what I've seen, there are so many people that come from either of these backgrounds and many of these people
are so successful. 

But which route is the best way to go? This questions has haunted me ever since I found that this was the career 
for me. 

This is my take and my point of view of the pros and cons of each route that I've researched and why I've chosen one
over the others. Now, this article isn't to persuade you in any way to choose what I want or what I think is the best for 
everyone. These were my pros and cons and my thought process on why I wanted to go the traditional route. Everyone comes
from different backgrounds and have different needs so I think the pros and cons could be different. 

So let's get to it.

Self-taught
- Pros 
1. Flexibility
- You get to learn whenever, wherever, and whatever you want. You can learn what kind of software developer you want to be,
whether it's a web developer, mobile app developer, machine learning, or firmware. I like how you can learn the specific
tutorials or books for what kind of developer you want to be. Time flexibility is also a plus. You can work full time while 
studying part time or do the opposite. You can work on a side project or see that youtube video of wanting to learn about
CSS Grid. Lastly, you're not confined in a classroom nowadays so you can just bring your laptop and start reading about 
closures in Javascript while on a flight to New Orleans (Like what I'm doing right now except for the book part. I am 
writing this blog on a plane though).
2. Cost
- A lot of the things you learn are free or not that expensive at all. There are so many tutorials coming from a google 
search or youtube video. There are also MOOCS that teach you a lot as well. Being free this is what allowed me to really
take a deep dive into programming to figure out that this career is for me.

- Cons 
1. Credentials
- I know I've said you can be a software developer without one and there are many people who are successful without it but 
I think, initially (I mean really, just in the early part of your developer career), just trying to get that first job is
going to be pretty tough to get without having ways help prove that you can be a capable developer. Being self-taught
you're going to have to really try and prove it to others that you can help build something awesome and also be 
efficient. 
2. Curriculum
- You may seem lost and could feel lost for awhile if you don't properly prepare what you're trying to lear and where you 
want to end up. This happened to me for the first few months. Also, you're never really sure when you find someone 
else's path is good enough or is what you're looking for. Being self taught might also take awhile in order to be confident
in yourself and be ready to contribute to a team.

Coding bootcamp
- Pros 
1. Immersion
- Going to a bootcamp you learn a lot in a little amount of time. The usual full time bootcamps I've seen last three months. 
You get to spend a whole day and then some learning to program with other like minded people who love building stuff. 
Bootcamps offer you the experience of working with others on a team, having mentors to ask, and getting relevant skills 
to do the job. Besides that you won't be lost anymore because they handle the curriculum for you to follow. 
2. Benefits
- There are many great things that can go along when you attend a coding bootcamp. Depending on where you go they'll 
provide resume reviews, mock interviews, get connections, they'll help you find a job, give you projects, and teach you
the necessary computer science skills to pass that interview and help make your job as a developer easier.

- Cons 
1. Quality
- Depending on which bootcamp you go to you might end up not having the education you're looking for. Some bootcamps
may teach an out of date stack or a language that isn't seen a lot in job postings. The quality of learning could
be bad and teachers might not be the best. What might also happen is that you could end up not being job ready and 
still have to learn more before applying to a kind of job you want. Knowing these going to a bootcamp may not be worth 
the price (which could cost up to $20,000).
2. Pace
- The pace for a coding a bootcamp can be pretty fast if you don't keep up. If you're doing full time and trying to become a software
developer in three months then you're going to learn a lot of information in a short amount of time. 12 or more hour days 
seem normal but don't leave much for a personal life or other responsibilities like taking care of a family. 

College
- Pros
1. Foundation
- You are learning many computer science topics to form the foundation to build upon later in your dev career. You'll have 
four years to dedicate yourself to programming or building side projects and choose electives that you get to choose in order
to better yourself as an engineer. On top of classes you learn how to learn and study through hard topics and questions. Study
habits can be brought over to working through a problem. 

2. Never a Negative
- Getting a degree from a four year college, to me, can never be seen as a negative when applying for software developer jobs.
The degree can help aid advancing in your career and will give you more keys to open more doors. 
